# Ethics

## Reading 1 [The code I'm still ashamed of](https://medium.freecodecamp.org/the-code-im-still-ashamed-of-e4c021dff55e)

In the case of the article, developer was tasked with writing up an amount of code which was basically a thinly veiled marketing scheme for a particular perscription (one which did end up having complications). As coders there are nearly an unlimited number projects for which we can be assigned and in this instance, link from the developer to the end result is very minor due that the responsibility does not lay on the coder themselves. It was a non-technical project/task which seemed like it could have been carried out easily by almost anyone at the firm they were working at, the customer was the one providing the requirements, the customer was the one responsible for the result/outcome, the doctor prescribing the medication was also in the loop as well, so placing blame on a non-medical professional for basically handing the equivalent of a questionaire to someone would be a jump too far.

For myself, I refuse to directly work on weapons or targeting systems for weapons in my current job because the end result is quite literally death. That said, a previous project had me on coding "is something that will hurt me out there?" and while that can be used to then trigger separate targeting algorithms (which I refuse to work on). The primary idea of "am I in danger?" is a non-violence causing premise which made my project ethically sound for me.

## Reading 2 [The ethical dilemmas of self-driving cars](https://www.theglobeandmail.com/globe-drive/culture/technology/the-ethical-dilemmas-of-self-drivingcars/article37803470/)

This is the living embodiment of the infamous trolley dilemma. Everyone knows that it would be better to swap tracks to have an end result which will not cost as many lives, but no one wants to be the person who will pull the lever. In addition the article brought up a number of interesting questions on if one life should be considered more valuable than another which personally should be no (primarily because it would classify a group of people as being less than). While there are certainly a number of other questions on how to code the calculations and which outcomes would be most favorable considering statistical analysis, perhaps people should focus on the immediate question. Taking that first step and saying "would auto-stop be an improvement?" or solving a particular case/situation which MOST people would agree is bad before tackling the more grey areas.